# Kotlin

At my current [company](https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/udaan) backend folks are using [kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/). One guy said  kotlin is like java, but was more easier to write. Also in a kotlin project, if they need they can also directly write java files. That's all I recall from that conversation. I don't have any background in Java project, let's anyway explore some kotlin stuffs so I can understand what my backend engineer are writing.

# Origin
Jetbrain created kotlin. Ok, but why? they have IDE for java and other stuff, why would they want to create a language itself. How know the actual truth, fellow people on internet is saying,
> "JetBrains needed to create Kotlin because they build their whole business on the JVM and they need a better language to create their own products. It's as simple as that. That's why the compatibility story in Kotlin is so wonderful. They don't want to rewrite. They want to continue development." ~ nirataro [[1]]


That story seems to be true, backend people are using Jerbrains IDE. Enough history, let run smtg.

Fun fact: Kotlin is a island in Russia.

# Setup
Mine is a mac so
```sh
brew install kotlin
```
to run kotlin
```
kotlinc <filename>.kt -include-runtime -d output.jar
java -jar output.jar
```
I already have java installed.

# Code 101
For the last 3 years, I mostly write javascript/typescript. So I'm trying to understand from that prespective. Only interesting thing in this section is `when` operator, everything else looks familiar.

## Variables
`val` = `const`, `var` = `let` (typescript)

```kotlin
val immutable = 10
var mutable = 5
mutable = 20
```

## Type
```kotlin
val name = "Kotlin" // Type inferred as String
val age = 25 // Type inferred as Int

val score: Double = 10.23 // you can also control
```

## Functions
```kotlin
fun sum(a: Int, b: Int): Int {
    return a + b;
}
```

So far things are familiar

## Loops
```kotlin
for (i in 1..5) {
    println(i)
}

for (item in array) {
    println(item)
}
```

## Class
```kotlin
class Person(val name: String, val age: Int)

val person = Person("John", 25)
println(person.name)
```

## Lambda Expressions
This feels bit different, everything inside curly bracket

```kotlin
val sum = { a: Int, b: Int -> a + b }
println(sum(2, 3));
```

# Null Safety
```kotlin
var nullableString: String? = null
println(nullableString?.length ?: 0)
```

## When 

```kotlin
val result = when(value) {
    1 -> "One"
    2 -> "Two"
    else -> "Unknown"
}
```

# Interesting Stuffs
## Coroutine
This is the [reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e7tKQDJsTGs) video I watched, a reddit [comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/Kotlin/comments/162d2lv/comment/jxwouwx/) that was helpful.

Coroutine is a function that can "pause" and "resume".

why "pause"? That's classic, when you have some network call, reading data, you don't wan't to "block" main thread.

when "resume"? above process (network call) will be handled by some non-blocking parts (not sure if it's thread, probably), once that is finished we can start executing from where we left of that function.

that's basically the essense of any async stuffs, `async` and `await` in javascript, how is this corouting in kotlin is different from that? Ok I think that was a rabbit hole, let's jump.

### Coroutine - Basics
- Coroutines can be thought of as light-weight threads, but there is a number of important differences that make their real-life usage very different from threads. It may suspend its execution in one thread and resume in another one. (In Javascript we don't talk about threads, or event think)

- here we follow "Structured Concurrency" which means bunch of coroutines are running under a supervision and supervision make sure of error handling and no thread is orphan. (this is a bit overwhelming at this point as I can't understand realworld example of stuff, these are dots to be fill in future)

From the video example, a set of wrestler can give pass and one wrestler can do the fight, when tired or done he can give pass and other wrestler can do fighting. Only on guy from one team will be fighting but they can fight interchangingly.

let's only explore once I see some real code or need. To be continued.


## Higher order function
If the last argument is callback, it can be written outside of parenthesis

```kotlin
fun calculate(x: Int, y: Int, operation: (Int, Int) -> Int): Int {
    return operation(x, y)
}

val sum = calculate(5, 3) { a, b -> a + b }  // 8
```

what if there is only one argument in callback

```kotlin
val positives = list.filter { it > 0 }
```

Kotlin do have hell lot of shortcut.

When I read more docs, I understood there is more stuff like above example and different from javascript. I better read through backend PR and figure out stuff what my teammates are writing than reading through docs.



# Summary
Kotlin definitely feels powerful and have less boilerplate. As it can do powerful things, It do have a lot of tools and concepts, which requires much more time and a solid need to work with. Let's explore this in future.

[1]:https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/7kmquq/comment/drfr6dp

