# ASO 101
This is a curated list of ASO content sourced from Reddit, YouTube, and X.
This could be right or wrong, more like a starting point where most people agree.
If this is low effort, we can try it. Most of this will cost you money, as finding
the right keyword is a bit hard, and there are controversial statements like we can
make money with just ASO. For better ranking, we need ASO + external users
(Apple Ads, social media) [1]. This could make sense.

## Reddit Threads
### What are some effective strategies for mastering ASO (3 Years ago)
- [ref](https://www.reddit.com/r/iOSProgramming/comments/152wq6l/what_are_some_effective_strategies_for_mastering/)

**Comment 1**
- Target keywords in title
- Ask for reviews in app
- Add translation for different languages
- Leverage apple search ads
- and most importantly build an app that doesn't suck  --- (lol)

**Comment 2**
- Screenshots really can make or break your app's success
- The key is staying focused on what users actually care about and showing them value right upfront.

**Comment 3**
- Regularly updating the app
- *user competitor keywords and use it in your title*
- user reviews

**Comment 4** - specifically about how to use keywords
- Find keywords to target. These should be very related to what the app solves, so if a user sees it they expect to get a solution to their problem. Preferable popular keywords, which you can find with either Apple Ads or with an ASO tool 
- Add your primary keyword to the title (this is the highest intent, boosts your ranking since it's considered most closely related to the user's search)
- Add your secondary keyword to the subtitle (no duplicates, the lowest priority field will be used by Apple for determining relevance, and thus rank)
- Add additional ones in the keywords field
- More new: Add some keywords in screenshots. Apple uses OCR to determine relevant keywords from screenshot images. From what I understand, you CAN use duplicates here, to drive the relevancy home, Apple doesn't punish you in the same way.
-  The highest lever for boosting ranks is to get ratings though, and it doesn't matter if it's positive or negative ratings, Apple will see that it's highly interacted with and deem it more relevant. Although of course, positive looks better, and most likely better for future downloads since users might use that as a gauge if it's worth even downloading, so try to ask for ratings when users are most likely to give a positive one.

# TODO
- watch this video and summarise - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_lq3ISJb4I

## References

[1] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_lq3ISJb4I
